ABCD017
2017 'very likely' in top three warmest years on record
Globally, temperatures in 2017 look set to be the third highest on record The year 2017 is "very likely" to be in the top three warmest years on record, according to provisional figures from the World Meteorological Organization. The WMO says it will likely be the hottest year in the absence of the El Nino phenomenon. The scientists argue that the long-term trend of warming driven by human activities continues unabated. They say many of the "extraordinary" weather events seen this year bear the hallmarks of climate change. On the opening day of this year's key UN climate talks, researchers from the WMO have presented their annual State of the Global Climate report. It follows hot on the heels of their greenhouse gases study from last week which found that concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere were the highest on record. Record surge in atmospheric CO2 in 2016 UN: Emissions gap is 'alarmingly high' What is climate change? While the new study only covers January to September, the WMO says the average global temperature was 1.1C above the pre-industrial figure. This is getting dangerously close to the 1.5 degrees threshold that many island states feel temperatures must be kept under to ensure their survival. The analysis suggests that 2017 is likely to come in 0.47C warmer than the 1981-2010 average. This is slightly down on 2016 when the El Nino weather phenomenon saw temperatures that were 0.56C above the average. According to the WMO, this year vies with 2015 to be the second or third warmest mark yet recorded.
MGB01
Mugabe sacks 'disloyal' Vice-President Mnangagwa
Mr Mnangagwa, 75, displayed "traits of disloyalty", Information Minister Simon Khaya Moyo said. His removal makes it more likely that President Robert Mugabe's wife Grace will follow in her husband's footsteps as leader of Zimbabwe. She had earlier called on her husband to remove his vice-president. "Mr Mnangagwa's conduct in discharge of his duties is inconsistent with the responsibilities," Information Minister Simon Moyo said. "The vice-president has exhibited traits of disloyalty", he added. Mr Mnangagwa, a former intelligence chief, had been a leading candidate to succeed President Mugabe. His sacking means Grace Mugabe is expected to be appointed Vice-President at a special congress of the ruling Zanu-PF party next month.
PLP04
Plastic problem being discussed
There's 8 million tonnes of plastic in the world's oceans so now experts are talking about what to do.
IR203
An Irishman's Jocular Tale
An Englishman, a Scotsman and an Irishman all entered a 26 mile long swimming race. After 12 miles the Scottish man gets tired and drops out. Then after 16 miles the English man gets tired and drops out. After 25 miles the Irish man decides he can't finish the race, so he turns around and swims back to the start.
MOO200
Apparently drunk moose gets stuck in tree
A seemingly intoxicated moose has been discovered entangled in an apple tree by a stunned Swede. Per Johansson, 45, says he heard a roar from his vacationing neighbor's garden in southwestern Sweden late Tuesday and went to have a look. There, he found a female moose kicking about in the tree. The animal was likely drunk from eating fermented apples. With the help of police and rescue services, Johansson later managed to set the moose free, in part by sawing off tree branches. But the animal appeared confused and wandered into Johansson's garden, where she was still resting Thursday. Other neighbors in the Goteborg suburb of Saro had seen the animal sneaking around the area for days. Johansson said the moose appeared to be sick, drunk, or half-stupid.
OCTOPEN01
This Species Of Octopus Has A Detachable Penis
The argonaut, the only cephalopod to secrete and live in a shell of its own making, is a unique sea creature that swims via jet propulsion – using powerful jets of water squirted through a funnel in its shell. Male argonauts tend to grow to up to a few centimeters in length, only about 10% of the size of the females, which can reach up to 2 meters long, depending how much they grow their shells. This sexual dimorphism poses an obvious question – how is reproduction possible when your potential baby daddy is only a fraction of your size? It’s been found that argonauts have an interesting way of resolving the little issue of copulation. And although live male argonauts have never actually been observed in the wild, an understanding of their reproduction processes has been gleaned from observing a dead male and a live female. The tiny male throws a modified arm containing spermatozoa (called a hectocotylus) at the female, which will then swim toward the female's mantle (the sac which stores her organs), finding its way inside and subsequently fertilizing the eggs. A female's eggs can actually be fertilized by more than one hectocotylus by storing them in the mantle cavity. The male's modified arm develops in a pouch under its eye until it’s called upon, at which points it explodes out of the cavity and swims across to the female, attaching itself to her mantle via suckers, and wiggling its way inside. Sounds sexy right? Males will die after throwing their tentacle at the female. However, unusually for cephalopods, the females don’t die after laying eggs. Instead, they continue to grow and reproduce.